---
title: Excerpts - One Minute Manager
description: Excerpts from "One Minute Manager"
date: 2019-01-18
---

One Minute Goal Setting

- One minute goal setting: understand what the responsibilities are - 250 words, on the same page
- Problem solving: what is happening, what would you like to have happened? would doing A -> what you like to have happned to come true? then yes, good solution… complaining = not knowing what you’d like to have happened
- Iterate until figure out a solution..
- Never assume your employee knows anything with goal setting.. be extremely clear

* * *

One Minute Praise

- Close monitor in the beginning, to "catch people doing something right"
- Tell upfront about what you are doing
- Praise immediatley, tell them how important they are to the organization, how good it makes you feel
- Stop for a moment of silence, encourage them to do the same

* * *

One Minute Reprimand

- When someone did something significantly wrong
    - Asap
    - Behavior not person
    - On top of things
    - "Fair"
- 1/2 reprimand:
    - Reprimand people immediately.
    - Tell people what they did wrong—be specific.
    - Tell people how you feel about what they did wrong—and in no uncertain terms. 5. Stop for a few seconds of uncomfortable silence to let them feel how you feel.
- 2/2
    - Shake hands, or touch them in a way that lets them know you are honestly on their side.
    - Remind them how much you value them.
    - Reaffirm that you think well of them but not of their performance in this situation.
    - Realize that when the reprimand is over, it’s over.